in the last few videos we talked about a
collaborative filtering algorithm in
this video I wanna say a little bit
about the vectorization implementation
of this algorithm and also talk a little
bit about other things you can do with
this algorithm for example one of the
things you do is given one product can
you find other products that are related
to this so that if for example a user
has recently been looking at one product
on their other related products that you
could recommend to this user so let's
see what we can do about that what I'd
like to do is work out an alternative
way of writing out the predictions of
the collaborative filtering algorithm to
start here's our data set with our five
movies and what I'm going to do is take
all the ratings by all the users and
group them into a matrix so here we have
five movies and four users and so this
matrix Y is going to be a five by four
matrix let's just you know taking all
the elements all of this data including
question marks and grouping them into
this matrix and of course the elements
of this matrix are the IJ element of
this matrix is really what we were
previously writing as Y superscript I
comma jeans the rating given to Ruby I
by user J given this matrix Y of all the
ratings that we have there's an
alternative way of writing out all the
predicted ratings of the algorithm and
in particular if you look at what a
certain user predicts on a certain movie
what user J predicts on movie I is given
by this formula
and so if you have a matrix of the
predictive ratings what you would have
is the following matrix where the I
comma J entry so this corresponds to the
rating that we predict user J would give
to movie I is exactly equal to that
theta J transpose X I and so you know
this is a matrix where right this first
element the one one element is a
predictive rating of user 1 on movie 1
and this element this is the 1 2 element
is their predictive rating of user 2 on
movie 1 and so on and this is the
predictive rating of user 1 on the last
movie and if you want you know this
rating is what we would have predicted
for this value and this rating is what
were their predicted for that value and
so on now given this matrix of predicted
ratings there is then a simpler or
vectorized way of writing this out in
particular if I define the matrix X and
this is going to be just like the matrix
we had earlier for linear regression to
me so if X 1 transpose X 2 transpose
down to X of n M
Transpo's so I'm going to take all the
features for my movies and stack them in
rows so if you think of each movie as
one example and stack all of the
features of the different movies and
rules and if we also define a matrix
capital theta to be equal to and what
I'm going to do is take my per user
parameters and stack them in columns so
that's by parameter for user 1 for user
2 and so on down to my final user and
stack them in columns then given this
definition of X and theta there is now a
much simpler way to write out this
matrix of predated ratings in particular
this matrix are predicted ratings can be
more simply written as just x times
theta and so this becomes a vectorized
implementation of how to compute all the
predicted ratings of all the users on
all the movies and in order to give this
approach a name the specific
collaborative filtering algorithm that
we talked about also has a name called
low rank matrix factorization and so
sometimes we hear a low rank determine
or rank matrix factorization that is
exactly this algorithm that we worked on
and determine the rank matrix
factorization comes from the fact that
this matrix X data has a mathematical
property which in linear algebra is
called that just a low rank matrix and
so that's what gives this
and so this mathematical property of the
matrix excavator of the matrix of
predictive ratings gives this algorithms
name of low rank matrix factorization
but if you don't know when the low rank
matrix is don't worry about it you
really don't need to know that in order
to do this algorithm but either way this
gives a nice vectorized way to compute
all of the users rate predictive ratings
on all of the movies
finally having run D collaborative
filtering algorithm here's one other
thing you can do which is use the
learned features to find related movies
specifically for each product I really
for niche movie I we've learned a
feature vector X I so you know when you
learn the set of features you don't
really know the advanced what the
different features are going to be but
if you run the algorithm and probably
the features will tend to capture what
are the important aspects of these
different movies or different projects
or what have you one of the important
aspects that cause some users to like
certain movies and cause some users to
like different sets of movies and so
maybe you end up learning a feature you
know where x1 equals real man's x2
equals action similar to an earlier
video and maybe you learn it's different
feature x3 which is the degree to which
this is a comedy the some feature it's
Fulgencio or some other thing and you
have n features altogether and after
you've learnt features there's actually
often pretty difficult to go in to the
learn features and come up with a human
understandable interpretation of what
these features really are but in
practice the features you know even
though these features it can be hard to
visualize you want to figure out just
what these features are usually it will
learn features that are very meaningful
for capturing whatever are the most
important or the most salient properties
of a movie that causes users like or
dislike it and so now let's say the one
adds the following problem say you have
some specific movie I and you want to
find other movies J that are related to
that movie and so well why would you
want to do this right maybe you have a
user that's browsing movies and they're
currently watching movie J then what's
the reasonable movie to recommend to
them to watch after the double move
J or if someone's recently purchased
movie J well what's a different movie
that would be reasonable to recommend to
them to for them to consider purchasing
so now you have learned these picture
vectors this gives us a very convenient
way to measure how similar two movies
are in particular movie I has a feature
vector X I and so if you can find a
different movie J so that the distance
between X I XJ is small then this is a
pretty strong indication that you know
movies Jay and I are somehow similar at
least in the sense that some of the
lights movie I may be more likely to
like movie J as well so just the recap
if your your user is looking at some
movie I and if you want to find the five
most similar movies through that movie
in order to recommend five new movies to
them what you do is find the five movies
J with the smallest distance between the
features between all of these different
movies and this could give you a few
different movies to recommend to your
user so with that hopefully you now know
how to use a vectorized implementation
to compute all the predicted ratings of
all the users on all the movies and also
how to do things like use learn features
to find what might be movies or what
might be products that are related to
each other